---
layout: post
title: "Prompt: What are my intentions for this month?"
date: 2022-08-01
bitlink: https://bit.ly/journalprompt121
description: "It's the first day of August. How quickly July has passed by and how quickly things seem to be moving. Our lives truly have accelerated. We watched nature's fury and power towards the end of July: back in our hometown Fujairah, rain hit hard last weekend and caused heavy damage. Though, the city is now returning to normalcy. Almost all of my friends..."
---

It's the first day of August. How quickly July has passed by and how quickly things seem to be moving. Our lives truly have accelerated. We watched nature's fury and power towards the end of July: back in our hometown Fujairah, [rain](https://www.thenationalnews.com/uae/2022/07/30/ive-never-seen-rain-like-it-uae-residents-return-to-flooded-homes-and-submerged-cars/) [hit hard](https://gulfnews.com/uae/uae-emergency-committees-register-flood-hit-residents-assess-damage-in-fujairah-ras-al-khaimah-1.89628761) last weekend and caused heavy damage. Though, the city is now returning to normalcy. Almost all of my friends are currently outside the country so I do not have an idea of how things are there on ground, but from the images on news we can see the city has started to recover so it looks like August is starting on a 'rebound and recover' note back there.
 
Here in India, things are looking fairly normal. That is unless, of course, you watch the news. There it looks like the whole country, no actually the whole world, seems to be on the brink of collapsing and burning down. Borrowing from Matt Haig: "Watching news can feel like a continous metaphor for generalised anxiety disorder." "So, it can be hard these days to tell where your anxiety disorder ends and where actual news begins."

I anticipate I will be travelling some more towards the last few days before finally returning to UAE on 13th. I am fairly excited to go back and I actually anticipate this month to be a very productive month. It better be: I still have a lot of holiday homework to complete and if I do not complete it soon enough, I might end up in the crippled anxiety-inducing and depressive state that Matt Haig talks about (and the one Johann Hari also discusses in detail). I know at this point I shouldn't be worrying all that much about it. I should be focusing on studying and learning more. Maybe I will discuss the specific reasons why I shouldn't worry so much about the holiday homework in another post but it's true: what matters is much bigger than this mundane work (and please, let's not talk about the aRt InTeGrAtEd that is a shame to the name of arts). And god WHY does it have to be handwritten. I know that a lot of technology is harmful to our brain but come on, typing is something we will use far more than handwriting. Just because the school administration or teachers are stressed out doesn't mean they have to pass it on to us. It is not your fault that you are stressed agreed, but then you can change it. Radical changes don't happen overnight, and I think I shouldn't expect them to change in my favor overnight (or over a few weeks) either if I am being honest, but seriously, why should I waste so much paper (and ink) by handwriting it when I can just type it out. In fact, I'm all for choice: if someone loves writing it out on paper then they can do so (sometimes even I feel like writing down something by hand instead of typing) but for those who want to type it out, they can just type it. Saves paper, saves headache, saves time, saves ink, gives students a feeling of control, saves mental bandwith and also saves the planet in the longer run.

But here's the thing: as I wrote that, I realised how meaningless it is for our school to consider saving the planet: I mean this is a school that purcases 1-star-environment-friendly-rated ACs in bulk, and in excess. This is a school that completely ignores student suggestions to save resources. This is a school that keeps all lights on even in empty rooms! I remember one day I randomly felt how big of a burden I was on the planet. What a waste of resources I was. But then I looked at one of my notebooks with my school's logo on it and I realized: there's always a bigger fish out there, isn't it?

I mean they're not alone exactly: green goals are more of a fashionable PR stunt for a lot of companies and organizations rather than an actual goal. If it saves them money then they'd go for it but if it costs them too much then the environment is an afterthought. I think I ventured too far from what I intended to write here but it feels really good to put down my thoughts like this. [Calm](https://www.calm.com/app) asked me to write down for 5 minutes using the prompt but since I've started writing I have completely lost my sense of time and I have no idea how long it's been. Definitely more than 5 though. 

I'll definitely try doing this more often now. So well, that makes one thing I intend to do during August: use these journal prompts to write more
